## Problem statement and application functionality
### E-Textbooks: 
The foundation of the application is a collection of e-textbooks curated by an admin. Each e-textbook has a title (string), a unique identifier (integer), some content (either text or images), and some activities. Content is organized into chapters that have a chapter number (alphanumeric starting with the string “chap” and followed by two digits), and a title (e.g. (e.g. The Relational Model) which are unique within a textbook. Each chapter is organized into sections which each have a section number, a title (unique within the chapters), and a sequence of content blocks. A content block can be a text block or an image. The blocks have identifiers that are unique within the sections and are always presented in order whenever sections are being displayed.
A textbook also contains activities. An activity is made up of a question and an answer set - 3 incorrect answers and one incorrect answer. Each answer has an associated explanation (one or two sentences – a string datatype can be used). Each activity is uniquely associated with a content block in a book section. Each activity can be uniquely identified by a combination of an id and the id of the section with which it is associated. In terms of its display position, it always appears after the content block with which it is associated and before the next content block.

### Roles: 
There are four primary user roles in the e-learning platform: admin, faculty, student, and teaching assistant. All roles have a first name, last name, email, password, and an individual cannot have multiple roles in the system. They also have unique userids formed from the first two letters of their first name, the first two letters of their last name, two-digit month, and two digit year of their account creation. In the application, the first screen shows the three options to select which role a user is signing in as.
An admin has privileges to create a new e-textbook, and can add new chapters, sections, activities to a book. Creating a book begins by adding basic information that includes a title and unique id which creates a textbook record. Then, chapters (and its constituents) can be added as needed by selecting an appropriate “addX” function from the admin menu (where X is either chapter, section, ...).

### Courses: 
An admin can create an instance of an existing e-textbook for a specific course. A Course will have a course title (e.g. CSC540-Database Systems), a unique course id (e.g. NCSUOganCSC440F24), a faculty member, a start date and end date. There are two types of courses: active and evaluation. An active course has a unique token (an alphanumeric string of 7 characters), course capacity (int), and an associated enrollment i.e. list of students.
Students can be added to the enrollment of an active course by the faculty member of the course only. The process of enrollment proceeds as follows:
1. Students request enrollment in a course by entering their information and the correct course token. If done correctly, a user account is created for them with this information if this is their first time requesting for any course in the system. However, at this point, they are not yet considered enrolled. They are placed on a list waiting to be approved. If the class is at capacity, however, they are not added to the list and a message is returned to them stating so. If a student already had a user account because they had previously created one as part of a previous registration process, a new user account is not created for them. All that is done is to place them on the appropriate approval list.
2. Periodically, the faculty member will view their worklist and approve some students to enroll. These students will now be removed from the pending approval list and be added as students of that particular course. Once the class is full i.e. course is at capacity, a message is sent to all remaining students on the pending approval list and the list is emptied.
3. Every user should have the option of viewing any notification messages they have. Once read, it is deleted from the notifications table.
   
An active course can have teaching assistants who are added to the course by the faculty member. The faculty member adds them using their information first name, last name email, and a default password which they can change when they log in.

The other type of course that can be created, an evaluation course, does not have an enrollment, teaching assistant, enrollment, or unique code.

Active and evaluation textbooks can be customized for a course which is done by faculty and TAs of that course. Faculty and TAs can set any type of content (including activities) as “hidden” in which case it doesn’t appear for viewing for the students for the class. Faculty (and TAs) can add new content to an existing section, add a section to an existing chapter, or add a brand new chapter altogether. They can delete content that they added but not the content in the original version of the book added by admin (nor should they have access to other faculty’s content even for a similar
course). Also, a TA can not delete anything entered by faculty members but can delete other course TA’s content. The content numbering scheme should be flexible enough to allow renumbering if content is deleted or inserted in sequence. For example, if Chapter 1 has three sections: 1.1, 1.2, 1.3 and section 2 is hidden from students, section 1.3 should be renumbered to 1.2. In other words, there is a default numbering of content (which should not be deleted in case a faculty member seeks to go back to the default version). However, there is a separate numbering (which is what is displayed) for an active or evaluation textbook based on customizations by the faculty and TAs.

After the course end date, the faculty member can have access to the course but can no longer make modifications and the course should be in a list of options that can be registered for.

### Students:
Students can log in and see a list of content that is available to view (i.e. not hidden.). The list is like a table of contents in a book, with chapter id/numbers and titles, then nested within that section ids and section titles (individual blocks are not listed). They can select a section they want to view which displays the first block and then a “next” option displays the next block of content. If the next block is an activity, they can enter the answer (the id of the correct answer out of the 4 displayed options). They get feedback: a message saying the answer was wrong or correct along with an associated explanation. If an answer is wrong, the correct answer is displayed with an explanation. If they got the answer correctly, a 3 point score is given. If wrong, a 1 point score is given for the attempt. If the activity is never attempted, a 0 is given. Along with the score, a timestamp. (We will not worry about implementing retries). The event of generating a new score for a student also causes a running total of participation activity points to be updated (this is the total number of points a student has accumulated so far from participation activities out of the total number of points possible).
An option on the student’s menu exists for a student to see the total participation activity points they have accumulated so far related to the possible total.
